## What Is this book all about?
Why are we programming board games? Well, they're fun to make! They're fun to
make and I hope they serve as a concrete reference point for the things we're
building and learning about. Sometimes programming classes, programming
tutorials go through exercies that don't make any sense, or just aren't
interesting. (For those of you with programming experience how many To-do list
apps have you made from different tutorials?)

Board games are a great thing to build while you're learning programming. Board
games have lots of discrete little programs to work through. We'll need to
learn how to structure our program so we can debug it, extend it's
functionality, and maintain it in the future. We'll need to learn ways to store
data to represent the state of the game, pieces on the board. We'll need to
learn algorithms to manipulate the state of the game.

Other programming books show you how to create video games. This book does not
do that. Although the programs we create will absolutely be on the computer,
I'm not convinced it is correct to call what we make video games. The programs
we create will be founded in the tangible world, being board games.

Welcome reader. Excuse words that double double themselves in sentences, like
the title of this book, "Learn Programming Programming Games." Words appearing
legitimately next to each other twice is a quirk I noticed a while ago and it
is something I won't give up.

Have you ever programming before? Maybe you've messed around with HTML / CSS to
customize your MySpace page. Maybe you've used Excel to calculate sums, or
do fancier spreadsheet things I can't imagine. Maybe you've taken an intro
programming class, or followed one of the many programming tutorials online.

Welcome all!

This book is written toward people having a wide variety of programming
experience.

The beginning of the book is written for people with zero programming
experience to introduce you to fundamental concepts like variables, functions,
if statements, loops, lists/arrays, and input and output.

## First Steps
Let's get you creating your first program. This book will jump between several
different languages. Let's start with JavaScript right now because it's perhaps
the most accessible and interactive. Later we'll use Python, and Java. Heck. We
may even throw in Ruby, Julia and Rust as well. Why not!!


